# DH140 Tiffany Deng FINAL Assignment 2

I have decided to do my DH 140 final project on data points I will pull from the book, *Lord of the Flies* by William Golding. It is one of my favorite books and is used at an intro to literary analysis for many high school courses. Unfortunately I do not have a data set yet, but I will create one based on the words and compiling similar studies with the ones we did in class about *Romoe and Juliet* and *Macbeth*. I found an article called *Eliciting Empathy with William Golding’s Lord of the Flies* (https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1462392/FULLTEXT01.pdf). The article talks about what emotions or is empathy evoked from the story. Additionally, they want to find if the story can sustain that empathy and how it is achieved. I think this was an interesting question as I loved *Lord of the Flies* and reading it elicit various emotions in me. It can also be considered a controversal book as it depicts violence the slow savage life styles the boys adapt. Another article that I will use in my analysis is *Tracking a Descent to Savagery with the Wolfram Language: Plotting Sentiment Analysis in Lord of the Flies* (https://blog.wolfram.com/2017/12/07/tracking-a-descent-to-savagery-with-the-wolfram-language-plotting-sentiment-analysis-in-lord-of-the-flies/). In this article, they use computational methods and coding to resaerch the sentimenal analysis throughout the book. I think it is interesting to compare the two difference sides of analzuing the book: literatural and scientific research. It will bring different perspectives on this book and its hidden meanings and theme. That is why I chose this topic to do more researh on. The questions that I am seeking to answer are: How different is the sentimental analysis approach between computer and human? If so, which is more accurate to the themes of the book? 

