# dh140tiffdengfinalproject

Introduction

I have decided to do my DH 140 final project on data points I will pull from the book, Lord of the Flies by William Golding. It is one of my favorite books and is used as an intro to literary analysis for many high school courses. Unfortunately, I do not have a data set yet, but I will create one based on the words and compile similar studies to the ones we did in class about Romeo and Juliet and Macbeth. I found an article called Eliciting Empathy with William Golding’s Lord of the Flies (r). The article talks about what emotions or is empathy evoked from the story. Additionally, they want to find out if the story can sustain that empathy and how it is achieved. I think this was an interesting question as I loved Lord of the Flies and reading it elicit various emotions in me. It can also be considered a controversial book as it depicts violence and the slow savage lifestyles the boys adopt. Another article that I will use in my analysis is Tracking a Descent to Savagery with the Wolfram Language: Plotting Sentiment Analysis in Lord of the Flies (https://blog.wolfram.com/2017/12/07/tracking-a-descent-to-savagery-with-the-wolfram-language-plotting-sentiment-analysis-in-lord-of-the-flies/). In this article, they use computational methods and coding to research the sentimental analysis throughout the book. I think it is interesting to compare the two different sides of analyzing the book: literature and scientific research. It will bring different perspectives on this book and its hidden meanings and theme. That is why I chose this topic to do more research on. The questions that I am seeking to answer are: How different is the sentimental analysis approach between computers and humans? If so, which is more accurate to the themes of the book?
